feat: agent toolkit, mcp, and working with llms docs (#842)
knocklabs/docs: content/developer-tools/agent-toolkit/human-in-the-loop-flows.mdx

---
title: Powering human-in-the-loop flows with the Knock Agent Toolkit
description: Learn how to use the Knock Agent Toolkit within your AI agent workflows to power rich human-in-the-loop interactions.
section: Developer tools
---

The Knock Agent Toolkit allows you to power rich human-in-the-loop interactions. For example, you can use the agent toolkit to create a workflow that lets a person to approve or reject work that the agent has done, powered by Knock's cross-channel messaging workflows.

> The Agent Toolkit exposes a set of helper methods that make it trivial for you to wrap your tool calls in requiring human input to proceed, and leveraging Knock's webhook mechanism to handle the asynchronous nature of a human-in-the-loop interaction. Knock takes care of all of the heavy lifting for you, making it easy to build rich human-in-the-loop flows with little effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Agent Toolkit exposes a set of helper methods that make it trivial for you to wrap your tool calls in a way that requires human input to proceed, while also leveraging Knock's webhook mechanism to handle the asynchronous nature of a human-in-the-loop interaction. Knock takes care of all the heavy lifting for you, making it easy to build rich human-in-the-loop flows with minimal effort.
```

This first sentence was slightly confusing upon initial reading. This is just a suggestion, but I'm open to others as well.

> The Agent Toolkit exposes a set of helper methods that make it trivial for you to wrap your tool calls in requiring human input to proceed, and leveraging Knock's webhook mechanism to handle the asynchronous nature of a human-in-the-loop interaction. Knock takes care of all of the heavy lifting for you, making it easy to build rich human-in-the-loop flows with little effort.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Agent Toolkit exposes a set of helper methods that  wrap your tool calls in requiring human input to proceed and leverage Knock's webhook mechanism to handle the asynchronous nature of a human-in-the-loop interaction. Knock takes care of all of the heavy lifting for you, making it easy to build rich human-in-the-loop flows with little effort.
```

> Using Knock it's possible to power human-in-the-loop interactions that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Knock, it's possible to power human-in-the-loop interactions that:
```

- Send cross-channel notifications to email, SMS, in-app feeds, and workplace chat applications like Slack and MS Teams.
- Power advanced cross-channel escalation flows to bubble up messages between channels or across team members.
- Solicit structured input such as approve/reject buttons, or unstructured feedback in the form of text or prompt modifications.
- Handle long-running async interactions that "interrupt" and "resume" your agent workflows.
- Give full visibility into the messages sent from your AI agent workflows and track engagement of those messages across channels.

## How Knock powers human-in-the-loop flows

> Knock uses [workflows](/concepts/workflows) to power human in the loop messaging across channels. Here's a high-level overview of how this works:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knock uses [workflows](/concepts/workflows) to power human-in-the-loop messaging across channels. Here's a high-level overview of how this works:
```

1. You setup a workflow in the Knock dashboard that describes the message to send and the channels to send it to.

> 2. Your agent calls to Knock to [trigger the workflow](/send-notifications/trigger-workflows/overview) with a set of recipients and any additional context for the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Your agent calls to Knock to [trigger the workflow](/send-notifications/triggering-workflows/overview) with a set of recipients and any additional context for the request.
```

> 3. Your user receives the message on the channel, which includes a the context for the request and a set of actions to take.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Your user receives the message on the channel, which includes the context for the request and a set of actions to take.
```

> 4. The user then interacts with the message and the result is recorded back to Knock.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. The user then interacts with the message and the result is sent back to Knock.
```

### `toolkit.requiresHumanInput`

The `requiresHumanInput` helper method allows you to wrap a tool in requiring human input to proceed. When a tool is wrapped with this method, when the LLM tries to invoke the call it will instead delegate the tool call to Knock, passing the tool execution context to the Knock workflow.

```typescript title="Wrap tool in requiring input"
import { createToolkit } from "@knocklabs/agent-toolkit/ai-sdk";

const toolkit = await createToolkit({
  serviceToken: process.env.KNOCK_SERVICE_TOKEN,
});

const { classifyWork: classifyToolRequiringInput } = toolkit.requireHumanInput(
  { classifyWork },
  {
    // (required) The key of the workflow to trigger
    workflow: "approve-classification",
    // (required) The list of recipients to trigger the workflow for
    recipients: ["user_123"],
    // (optional) Any additional data to pass along with the request
    data: {},
  },
);
```

Calling `requireHumanInput` will return a new tool that you pass in place of the original tool in your model. When the LLM invokes the new tool, it will instead delegate the tool call to Knock, passing the tool execution context to the Knock workflow.

> Note: when the LLM invokes the new tool, it will appear as if the tool-call completed, albeit with a result that indicates that the tool is still waiting for human input. This is expected behavior.

Reviewer: Unsure if we want to make this a `<Callout>`?

Reviewer 2: yeah, agreed - this was a confusing part of the process when I tried to roll my own version of this. If we can, maybe document the resulting message here so someone can handle it on their own

import { createToolkit } from "@knocklabs/agent-toolkit/ai-sdk";

const toolkit = await createToolkit({
  serviceToken: process.env.KNOCK_SERVICE_TOKEN,
});

function handleIncomingInteraction(event) {
  const interactionEvent = toolkit.handleMessageInteracted(event);

  if (interactionEvent && interactionEvent.hasToolCall) {
    const toolResult = await toolkit.resumeToolExecution(interactionEvent);
    // Do something with the tool result
  }
}
```

When using the `resumeToolExecution` method, you must have first registered any tools that require human input using the `requiresHumanInput` method. This ensures that the toolkit has access to the necessary information to resume the tool execution.

In the AI SDK, the `resumeToolExecution` method will return a tool status object where you can access the result under the `result` property. The original `toolCallId` is also included.

## Example: In-app approval flow

In this guide we show you how to setup an approval flow that sends an in-app notification to a notification feed requesting approval when the agent wishes to invoke a particular tool.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Setting up a workflow to power approvals">

>     To start, you'll want to setup a Knock workflow with a single, in-app feed channel step that sends an approval message to an in-app feed. You can find a workflow template for this in the [workflow templates repository](https://github.com/knocklabs/workflow-templates/blob/main/workflows/approval-workflow.json).

Reviewer: This GitHub repo returns a 404?

  </Step>
  <Step title="Handling the feed interaction">

>     Next, you'll need to add an interaction handler such that when a user taps on the approve/reject buttons in the notification feed that 

Reviewer: Seems like this step wasn't completed

  </Step>
  <Step title="Setting up an outbound webhook in Knock">

>     A human in the loop interaction is inherently an asynchronous action, and so requires that we might need to handle the approval at some later point. Knock uses [outbound webhooks](/developer-tools/outbound-webhooks/overview) to forward your events to your application, helping to implement this asynchronous behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A human-in-the-loop interaction is inherently an asynchronous action, and therefore requires that we might need to handle the approval at some later point. Knock uses [outbound webhooks](/developer-tools/outbound-webhooks/overview) to forward your events to your application, helping to implement this asynchronous behavior.
```

>     To set up an outbound webhook, you'll need to create a new webhook under "Developers" > "Webhooks" in the Knock dashboard. Add a URL for your service and select the `message.interacted` event. You can read more about the available [event types in our guide](/developer-tools/outbound-webhooks/event-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To set up an outbound webhook, you'll need to create a new webhook under **Developers** > **Webhooks** in the Knock dashboard. Add a URL for your service and select the `message.interacted` event. You can read more about the available [event types in our guide](/developer-tools/outbound-webhooks/event-types).
```
